_drafts/kubernetes/03h-pod-container-probe-config.markdown, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Configure liveness, readiness, and startup probes"
lang: k8s
authors:
- dimasm93
categories:
- DevOps
- Orchestration
- Kubernetes
- Workloads
refs: 
- https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-startup-probes/
youtube: 
comments: true
catalog_key: pod-container
image_path: /resources/posts/kubernetes/03g-container-probe
gist: dimMaryanto93/a3a01b83910cf07914935a25a62d30ce
downloads: []
---

Hai semuanya, di materi kali ini kita akan membahas lebih detail tentang Container probe diantaranya Liveness, Readiness and Startup Probes dalam suatu Pod Specification. Diantaranya:

1. What the different between liveness, readiness and startup probe?
2. When should you use container probe?
3. Configure liveness probe in a Pod
4. Configure readiness probe in a Pod
5. Configure startup probe in a Pod
6. Motivation for using Container Probe

Ok langsung aja kita bahas materi yang pertama

<!--more-->

## What the different between liveness, readiness and startup probe?

Sebelum kita menggunakan atau men-configure container probe untuk liveness, readiness dan startup kita bahas dulu perbedaannya ya. Ok kita mulai bahas satu-per-satu mulai dari yang paling umum digunakan yaitu liveness probe.

The kubelet uses liveness probes to know when to restart a container. For example, liveness probes could catch a deadlock, where an application is running, but unable to make progress. Restarting a container in such a state can help to make the application more available despite bugs.

The kubelet uses readiness probes to know when a container is ready to start accepting traffic. A Pod is considered ready when all of its containers are ready. One use of this signal is to control which Pods are used as backends for Services. When a Pod is not ready, it is removed from Service load balancers.

The kubelet uses startup probes to know when a container application has started. If such a probe is configured, it disables liveness and readiness checks until it succeeds, making sure those probes don't interfere with the application startup. This can be used to adopt liveness checks on slow starting containers, avoiding them getting killed by the kubelet before they are up and running.

Untuk lebih memahami berikut adalah diagram timeline state managementnya:

{% mermaid %}
gantt
    title Container Probe state managements
    dateFormat HH:mm
    axisFormat %H:%M
    section Startup Probe
    Container starting          :           containerStart,     12:00,                      10second
    Startup probe               :           startupTry1,        after containerStart,       1min
    Container started           :done,      containerStarted,   after startupTry1,          10second
    section Readiness Probe
    Check container is ready?   :           checkReady,         after containerStarted,     10second
    Container Ready             :done,      containerReady,     after checkReady,           30second
    section Liveness Probe
    Check container is live?    :           checkLive,          after containerReady,       10second
    Container Running           :           containerRun,       after checkLive,            30second
    Container Healty            :done,      containerHealty,    after containerRun,         10second
{% endmermaid %}

## When should you use container probe?

Nah ini juga bagian penting dari section sebelumnya, kapansih kita harus menggunakan container probes khususnya untuk Liveness, Readiness dan Startup Probe. Yukk kita bahas satu-per-satu, mulai dari **Liveness Probe**:

If the process in your container is able to crash on its own whenever it encounters an issue or becomes unhealthy, you do not necessarily need a liveness probe; the kubelet will automatically perform the correct action in accordance with the Pod's `restartPolicy`.

If you'd like your container to be killed and restarted if a probe fails, then specify a liveness probe, and specify a `restartPolicy` of `Always` or `OnFailure`.

Kemudian kita bahas **Readiness Probe**:

If you'd like to start sending traffic to a Pod only when a probe succeeds, specify a readiness probe. In this case, the readiness probe might be the same as the liveness probe, but the existence of the readiness probe in the spec means that the Pod will start without receiving any traffic and only start receiving traffic after the probe starts succeeding.

If you want your container to be able to take itself down for maintenance, you can specify a readiness probe that checks an endpoint specific to readiness that is different from the liveness probe.

If your app has a strict dependency on back-end services, you can implement both a liveness and a readiness probe. The liveness probe passes when the app itself is healthy, but the readiness probe additionally checks that each required back-end service is available. This helps you avoid directing traffic to Pods that can only respond with error messages.

Dan finally yang terakhir yaitu **Startup Probe**:

Startup probes are useful for Pods that have containers that take a long time to come into service. Rather than set a long liveness interval, you can configure a separate configuration for probing the container as it starts up, allowing a time longer than the liveness interval would allow.

If your container usually starts in more than `initialDelaySeconds + failureThreshold × periodSeconds`, you should specify a startup probe that checks the same endpoint as the liveness probe. The default for `periodSeconds` is `10s`. You should then set its `failureThreshold` high enough to allow the container to start, without changing the default values of the liveness probe. This helps to protect against deadlocks.

## Configure liveness command in a Pod

Many applications running for long periods of time eventually transition to broken states, and cannot recover except by being restarted. Kubernetes provides liveness probes to detect and remedy such situations.

Contoh sederhannya seperti, misalnya kita menjalankan program yang sifatnya running di background / service. Untuk mendeteksi program tersebut tetap berjalan kita bisa check menggunakan output yang di keluarkan oleh program tersebut seperti log file dan lain-lain. Jadi klo kita coba buat configurasinya seperti berikut:

{% gist page.gist "03h-pod-probe-liveness-command.yaml" %}

In the configuration file, you can see that the Pod has a single Container. The `periodSeconds` field specifies that the kubelet should perform a liveness probe every `5 seconds`. The `initialDelaySeconds` field tells the kubelet that it should wait `5 seconds` before performing the first probe. To perform a probe, the kubelet executes the command cat `/tmp/healthy` in the target container. If the command succeeds, it `returns 0`, and the kubelet considers the container to be alive and healthy. If the command returns a `non-zero value`, the kubelet kills the container and restarts it.

When the container starts, it executes this command:

{% highlight bash %}
/bin/sh -c "touch /tmp/healthy; sleep 30; rm -f /tmp/healthy; sleep 600"
{% endhighlight %}

Jika di jalankan hasilnya seperti berikut:

```bash
» kubectl apply -f 02-workloads/01-pod/pod-probe-liveness-command.yaml 
pod/pod-probe-liveness-command created

» kubectl get pod
NAME                         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod-probe-liveness-command   1/1     Running   0          19s

» kubectl describe pod pod-probe-liveness-command                     
Events:
  Type    Reason     Age   From               Message
  ----    ------     ----  ----               -------
  Normal  Scheduled  12s   default-scheduler  Successfully assigned default/pod-probe-liveness-command to latihan
  Normal  Pulling    12s   kubelet            Pulling image "k8s.gcr.io/busybox"
  Normal  Pulled     11s   kubelet            Successfully pulled image "k8s.gcr.io/busybox" in 986.394876ms
  Normal  Created    10s   kubelet            Created container pod-probe-liveness-command
  Normal  Started    10s   kubelet            Started container pod-probe-liveness-command

## wait 30s then exeucute again, then see the container restated because failed container probe
» kubectl describe pod pod-probe-liveness-command
Events:
  Type     Reason     Age                From               Message
  ----     ------     ----               ----               -------
  Normal   Scheduled  74s                default-scheduler  Successfully assigned default/pod-probe-liveness-command to latihan
  Normal   Pulling    74s                kubelet            Pulling image "k8s.gcr.io/busybox"
  Normal   Pulled     73s                kubelet            Successfully pulled image "k8s.gcr.io/busybox" in 986.394876ms
  Normal   Created    72s                kubelet            Created container pod-probe-liveness-command
  Normal   Started    72s                kubelet            Started container pod-probe-liveness-command
  Warning  Unhealthy  29s (x3 over 39s)  kubelet            Liveness probe failed: cat: cant open '/tmp/healthy': No such file or directory
  Normal   Killing    29s                kubelet            Container pod-probe-liveness-command failed liveness probe, will be restarted

» kubectl get pod
NAME                         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod-probe-liveness-command   1/1     Running   1          30s
```

## Configure liveness HTTP in a Pod

Another kind of liveness probe uses an HTTP GET request. Untuk menggunakan liveness probe HTTP GET request ini bisa menggunakan 2 cara yaitu number of port and named port. Karena pembahasan menggunakan number of port sudah kita bahas di materi sebelumnya jadi kita bahas menggunakan Named Port ya. Berikut adalah sample configurationnya:

{% gist page.gist "03h-pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port.yaml" %}

In the configuration file, you can see that the Pod has a single container. The `periodSeconds` field specifies that the kubelet should perform a liveness probe every `5 seconds`. The `initialDelaySeconds` field tells the kubelet that it should wait `5 seconds` before performing the first probe. To perform a probe, the kubelet sends an HTTP GET request to the server that is running in the container and listening on `port 80`. If the handler for the server's `/status` path returns a success code, the kubelet considers the container to be alive and healthy. If the handler returns a failure code, the kubelet kills the container and restarts it.

Any code greater than or equal to `200` and less than `400` indicates success. Any other code indicates failure.

Jika dijalankan hasilnya seperti berikut:

```bash
» kubectl apply -f 02-workloads/01-pod/pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port.yaml 
pod/pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port created

» kubectl get pod
NAME                                 READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port   1/1     Running   0          6s

» kubectl describe pod pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port
Events:
  Type     Reason     Age               From               Message
  ----     ------     ----              ----               -------
  Normal   Scheduled  22s               default-scheduler  Successfully assigned default/pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port to latihan
  Normal   Pulled     17s               kubelet            Successfully pulled image "nginx" in 3.177382341s
  Normal   Created    17s               kubelet            Created container pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port
  Normal   Started    17s               kubelet            Started container pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port
  Normal   Pulling    2s (x2 over 21s)  kubelet            Pulling image "nginx"
  Warning  Unhealthy  2s (x3 over 12s)  kubelet            Liveness probe failed: HTTP probe failed with statuscode: 404
  Normal   Killing    2s                kubelet            Container pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port failed liveness probe, will be restarted

» kubectl get pod
NAME                                 READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port   1/1     Running   1          25s
```

## Configure TCP liveness in a Pod

A third type of liveness probe uses a TCP socket. With this configuration, the kubelet will attempt to open a socket to your container on the specified port. If it can establish a connection, the container is considered healthy, if it can't it is considered a failure.

Berikut adalah sample configurationnya:

{% gist page.gist "03h-pod-probe-liveness-tcp.yaml" %}

As you can see, configuration for a TCP check is quite similar to an HTTP check. The kubelet will send the first readiness probe `5 seconds` after the container starts. This will attempt to connect to the nginx container on port `8080`. If the probe succeeds, the Pod will be marked as ready. The kubelet will continue to run this check every `10 seconds`.

Jika kita coba jalankan hasilnya seperti berikut:

```bash
» kubectl apply -f 02-workloads/01-pod/pod-probe-liveness-tcp.yaml 
pod/pod-probe-liveness-tcp created

» kubectl get pod
NAME                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod-probe-liveness-tcp   1/1     Running   0          7s

» kubectl describe pod pod pod-probe-liveness-tcp
Events:
  Type     Reason     Age   From               Message
  ----     ------     ----  ----               -------
  Normal   Scheduled  22s   default-scheduler  Successfully assigned default/pod-probe-liveness-tcp to latihan
  Normal   Pulling    21s   kubelet            Pulling image "nginx"
  Normal   Pulled     17s   kubelet            Successfully pulled image "nginx" in 3.868622684s
  Normal   Created    17s   kubelet            Created container pod-probe-liveness-tcp
  Normal   Started    17s   kubelet            Started container pod-probe-liveness-tcp
  Warning  Unhealthy  2s    kubelet            Liveness probe failed: dial tcp 172.17.0.3:8080: connect: connection refused
Error from server (NotFound): pods "pod" not found

» kubectl get pod
NAME                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS      AGE
pod-probe-liveness-tcp   1/1     Running   1 (40s ago)   80s
```

## Configure grpc liveness in a Pod

Description here!

## Protect slow starting container with startup probe

Description here!

## Configure readiness probes

Description here!

## Motivation for using Container Probe

Description here!

Commit message:

pod container probe liveness grpc

_drafts/kubernetes/03h-pod-container-probe-config.markdown, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Configure liveness, readiness, and startup probes"
lang: k8s
authors:
- dimasm93
categories:
- DevOps
- Orchestration
- Kubernetes
- Workloads
refs: 
- https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-startup-probes/
youtube: 
comments: true
catalog_key: pod-container
image_path: /resources/posts/kubernetes/03g-container-probe
gist: dimMaryanto93/a3a01b83910cf07914935a25a62d30ce
downloads: []
---

Hai semuanya, di materi kali ini kita akan membahas lebih detail tentang Container probe diantaranya Liveness, Readiness and Startup Probes dalam suatu Pod Specification. Diantaranya:

1. What the different between liveness, readiness and startup probe?
2. When should you use container probe?
3. Configure liveness probe in a Pod
4. Configure readiness probe in a Pod
5. Configure startup probe in a Pod
6. Motivation for using Container Probe

Ok langsung aja kita bahas materi yang pertama

<!--more-->

## What the different between liveness, readiness and startup probe?

Sebelum kita menggunakan atau men-configure container probe untuk liveness, readiness dan startup kita bahas dulu perbedaannya ya. Ok kita mulai bahas satu-per-satu mulai dari yang paling umum digunakan yaitu liveness probe.

The kubelet uses liveness probes to know when to restart a container. For example, liveness probes could catch a deadlock, where an application is running, but unable to make progress. Restarting a container in such a state can help to make the application more available despite bugs.

The kubelet uses readiness probes to know when a container is ready to start accepting traffic. A Pod is considered ready when all of its containers are ready. One use of this signal is to control which Pods are used as backends for Services. When a Pod is not ready, it is removed from Service load balancers.

The kubelet uses startup probes to know when a container application has started. If such a probe is configured, it disables liveness and readiness checks until it succeeds, making sure those probes don't interfere with the application startup. This can be used to adopt liveness checks on slow starting containers, avoiding them getting killed by the kubelet before they are up and running.

Untuk lebih memahami berikut adalah diagram timeline state managementnya:

{% mermaid %}
gantt
    title Container Probe state managements
    dateFormat HH:mm
    axisFormat %H:%M
    section Startup Probe
    Container starting          :           containerStart,     12:00,                      10second
    Startup probe               :           startupTry1,        after containerStart,       1min
    Container started           :done,      containerStarted,   after startupTry1,          10second
    section Readiness Probe
    Check container is ready?   :           checkReady,         after containerStarted,     10second
    Container Ready             :done,      containerReady,     after checkReady,           30second
    section Liveness Probe
    Check container is live?    :           checkLive,          after containerReady,       10second
    Container Running           :           containerRun,       after checkLive,            30second
    Container Healty            :done,      containerHealty,    after containerRun,         10second
{% endmermaid %}

## When should you use container probe?

Nah ini juga bagian penting dari section sebelumnya, kapansih kita harus menggunakan container probes khususnya untuk Liveness, Readiness dan Startup Probe. Yukk kita bahas satu-per-satu, mulai dari **Liveness Probe**:

If the process in your container is able to crash on its own whenever it encounters an issue or becomes unhealthy, you do not necessarily need a liveness probe; the kubelet will automatically perform the correct action in accordance with the Pod's `restartPolicy`.

If you'd like your container to be killed and restarted if a probe fails, then specify a liveness probe, and specify a `restartPolicy` of `Always` or `OnFailure`.

Kemudian kita bahas **Readiness Probe**:

If you'd like to start sending traffic to a Pod only when a probe succeeds, specify a readiness probe. In this case, the readiness probe might be the same as the liveness probe, but the existence of the readiness probe in the spec means that the Pod will start without receiving any traffic and only start receiving traffic after the probe starts succeeding.

If you want your container to be able to take itself down for maintenance, you can specify a readiness probe that checks an endpoint specific to readiness that is different from the liveness probe.

If your app has a strict dependency on back-end services, you can implement both a liveness and a readiness probe. The liveness probe passes when the app itself is healthy, but the readiness probe additionally checks that each required back-end service is available. This helps you avoid directing traffic to Pods that can only respond with error messages.

Dan finally yang terakhir yaitu **Startup Probe**:

Startup probes are useful for Pods that have containers that take a long time to come into service. Rather than set a long liveness interval, you can configure a separate configuration for probing the container as it starts up, allowing a time longer than the liveness interval would allow.

If your container usually starts in more than `initialDelaySeconds + failureThreshold × periodSeconds`, you should specify a startup probe that checks the same endpoint as the liveness probe. The default for `periodSeconds` is `10s`. You should then set its `failureThreshold` high enough to allow the container to start, without changing the default values of the liveness probe. This helps to protect against deadlocks.

## Configure liveness command in a Pod

Many applications running for long periods of time eventually transition to broken states, and cannot recover except by being restarted. Kubernetes provides liveness probes to detect and remedy such situations.

Contoh sederhannya seperti, misalnya kita menjalankan program yang sifatnya running di background / service. Untuk mendeteksi program tersebut tetap berjalan kita bisa check menggunakan output yang di keluarkan oleh program tersebut seperti log file dan lain-lain. Jadi klo kita coba buat configurasinya seperti berikut:

{% gist page.gist "03h-pod-probe-liveness-command.yaml" %}

In the configuration file, you can see that the Pod has a single Container. The `periodSeconds` field specifies that the kubelet should perform a liveness probe every `5 seconds`. The `initialDelaySeconds` field tells the kubelet that it should wait `5 seconds` before performing the first probe. To perform a probe, the kubelet executes the command cat `/tmp/healthy` in the target container. If the command succeeds, it `returns 0`, and the kubelet considers the container to be alive and healthy. If the command returns a `non-zero value`, the kubelet kills the container and restarts it.

When the container starts, it executes this command:

{% highlight bash %}
/bin/sh -c "touch /tmp/healthy; sleep 30; rm -f /tmp/healthy; sleep 600"
{% endhighlight %}

Jika di jalankan hasilnya seperti berikut:

```bash
» kubectl apply -f 02-workloads/01-pod/pod-probe-liveness-command.yaml 
pod/pod-probe-liveness-command created

» kubectl get pod
NAME                         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod-probe-liveness-command   1/1     Running   0          19s

» kubectl describe pod pod-probe-liveness-command                     
Events:
  Type    Reason     Age   From               Message
  ----    ------     ----  ----               -------
  Normal  Scheduled  12s   default-scheduler  Successfully assigned default/pod-probe-liveness-command to latihan
  Normal  Pulling    12s   kubelet            Pulling image "k8s.gcr.io/busybox"
  Normal  Pulled     11s   kubelet            Successfully pulled image "k8s.gcr.io/busybox" in 986.394876ms
  Normal  Created    10s   kubelet            Created container pod-probe-liveness-command
  Normal  Started    10s   kubelet            Started container pod-probe-liveness-command

## wait 30s then exeucute again, then see the container restated because failed container probe
» kubectl describe pod pod-probe-liveness-command
Events:
  Type     Reason     Age                From               Message
  ----     ------     ----               ----               -------
  Normal   Scheduled  74s                default-scheduler  Successfully assigned default/pod-probe-liveness-command to latihan
  Normal   Pulling    74s                kubelet            Pulling image "k8s.gcr.io/busybox"
  Normal   Pulled     73s                kubelet            Successfully pulled image "k8s.gcr.io/busybox" in 986.394876ms
  Normal   Created    72s                kubelet            Created container pod-probe-liveness-command
  Normal   Started    72s                kubelet            Started container pod-probe-liveness-command
  Warning  Unhealthy  29s (x3 over 39s)  kubelet            Liveness probe failed: cat: cant open '/tmp/healthy': No such file or directory
  Normal   Killing    29s                kubelet            Container pod-probe-liveness-command failed liveness probe, will be restarted

» kubectl get pod
NAME                         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod-probe-liveness-command   1/1     Running   1          30s
```

## Configure liveness HTTP in a Pod

Another kind of liveness probe uses an HTTP GET request. Untuk menggunakan liveness probe HTTP GET request ini bisa menggunakan 2 cara yaitu number of port and named port. Karena pembahasan menggunakan number of port sudah kita bahas di materi sebelumnya jadi kita bahas menggunakan Named Port ya. Berikut adalah sample configurationnya:

{% gist page.gist "03h-pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port.yaml" %}

In the configuration file, you can see that the Pod has a single container. The `periodSeconds` field specifies that the kubelet should perform a liveness probe every `5 seconds`. The `initialDelaySeconds` field tells the kubelet that it should wait `5 seconds` before performing the first probe. To perform a probe, the kubelet sends an HTTP GET request to the server that is running in the container and listening on `port 80`. If the handler for the server's `/status` path returns a success code, the kubelet considers the container to be alive and healthy. If the handler returns a failure code, the kubelet kills the container and restarts it.

Any code greater than or equal to `200` and less than `400` indicates success. Any other code indicates failure.

Jika dijalankan hasilnya seperti berikut:

```bash
» kubectl apply -f 02-workloads/01-pod/pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port.yaml 
pod/pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port created

» kubectl get pod
NAME                                 READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port   1/1     Running   0          6s

» kubectl describe pod pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port
Events:
  Type     Reason     Age               From               Message
  ----     ------     ----              ----               -------
  Normal   Scheduled  22s               default-scheduler  Successfully assigned default/pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port to latihan
  Normal   Pulled     17s               kubelet            Successfully pulled image "nginx" in 3.177382341s
  Normal   Created    17s               kubelet            Created container pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port
  Normal   Started    17s               kubelet            Started container pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port
  Normal   Pulling    2s (x2 over 21s)  kubelet            Pulling image "nginx"
  Warning  Unhealthy  2s (x3 over 12s)  kubelet            Liveness probe failed: HTTP probe failed with statuscode: 404
  Normal   Killing    2s                kubelet            Container pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port failed liveness probe, will be restarted

» kubectl get pod
NAME                                 READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod-probe-liveness-http-named-port   1/1     Running   1          25s
```

## Configure TCP liveness in a Pod

A third type of liveness probe uses a TCP socket. With this configuration, the kubelet will attempt to open a socket to your container on the specified port. If it can establish a connection, the container is considered healthy, if it can't it is considered a failure.

Berikut adalah sample configurationnya:

{% gist page.gist "03h-pod-probe-liveness-tcp.yaml" %}

As you can see, configuration for a TCP check is quite similar to an HTTP check. The kubelet will send the first readiness probe `5 seconds` after the container starts. This will attempt to connect to the nginx container on port `8080`. If the probe succeeds, the Pod will be marked as ready. The kubelet will continue to run this check every `10 seconds`.

Jika kita coba jalankan hasilnya seperti berikut:

```bash
» kubectl apply -f 02-workloads/01-pod/pod-probe-liveness-tcp.yaml 
pod/pod-probe-liveness-tcp created

» kubectl get pod
NAME                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod-probe-liveness-tcp   1/1     Running   0          7s

» kubectl describe pod pod pod-probe-liveness-tcp
Events:
  Type     Reason     Age   From               Message
  ----     ------     ----  ----               -------
  Normal   Scheduled  22s   default-scheduler  Successfully assigned default/pod-probe-liveness-tcp to latihan
  Normal   Pulling    21s   kubelet            Pulling image "nginx"
  Normal   Pulled     17s   kubelet            Successfully pulled image "nginx" in 3.868622684s
  Normal   Created    17s   kubelet            Created container pod-probe-liveness-tcp
  Normal   Started    17s   kubelet            Started container pod-probe-liveness-tcp
  Warning  Unhealthy  2s    kubelet            Liveness probe failed: dial tcp 172.17.0.3:8080: connect: connection refused
Error from server (NotFound): pods "pod" not found

» kubectl get pod
NAME                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS      AGE
pod-probe-liveness-tcp   1/1     Running   1 (40s ago)   80s
```

## Configure grpc liveness in a Pod

If your application implements [gRPC Health Checking Protocol](https://github.com/grpc/grpc/blob/master/doc/health-checking.md), kubelet can be configured to use it for application liveness checks. You must enable the `GRPCContainerProbe` [feature gate](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) in order to configure checks that rely on gRPC.

Karena kami belum punya workload untuk menggunakan gRPC ini, jika menggunakan temen-temen boleh checkout di [dokumentasi resminya](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-startup-probes/#define-a-grpc-liveness-probe) ya 

Jadi kita skip aja ya untuk liveness menggunakan gRPC ini.

## Configure readiness probes

Description here!

## Protect slow starting container with startup probe

Description here!

## Motivation for using Container Probe

Description here!
